.TH gaim-remote 1

.SH "NAME"
gaim-remote v0.65 \- Gaim command-line remote control

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.TP 5
\fBgaim-remote \fI[command]\fR \fI[parameters]\fR
.TP 5
\fBgaim-remote -h \fI[command]\fR

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fbgaim-remote\fR is a command-line interface for controlling an already-running instance of the Gaim Instant Messaging client. It currently has only rudimentary support for launching AIM-style URIs, and closing the running instance, although further functionality is planned.

.SH "OPTIONS"
The following options are provided by \fBgaim-remote\fR:
.TP
.B \-h [\fIcommand\fB]
Display help for \fBgaim-remote\fR or a specific command (see below).

.SH "COMMANDS"
The following commands are implemented by \fBgaim-remote\fR:
.TP
.B quit
Closes the currently-running instance of \fBGaim\fR.
.TP
.B uri [URI]
Sends the given AIM-style URI to the currently running instance of \fBGaim\fR (see below).

.SH "URIs"
The following URIs are currently valid. These default to acting on the first AIM account you have in your list:
.TP
.B aim:goim?screenname=[SCREENNAME]
Opens a new conversation window to the given screenname.
.TP
.B aim:goim?screenname=[SCREENNAME]&message=[MESSAGE]
Sends the given message to the screenname. Spaces in the message must be replaced with +.
.TP
.B aim:gochat?roomname=[CHATROOM]
Opens a chat window in the given room.
.TP
.B aim:addbuddy?screenname=[SCREENNAME]
Opens a dialog to adds the specified buddy to your buddy list.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I /tmp/gaim_[USERNAME].[INSTANCE]
The UNIX domain socket used to contact the running instance of \fBGaim\fR.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gaim (1),
.BR \fIhttp://gaim.sourceforge.net/\fR,
.BR \fIhttp://www.sourceforge.net/projects/gaim/\fR

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
This manpage was written by Robert McQueen <\fIrobot101@debian.org\fR>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

